Markdown files/extraction.md, before:

# Extraction

[Go back to ETL](ETL.md)

## Getting the invoices 

The invoices are sent to my personal email from E.LECLERC so I created a worfklow in Power Automate to automatically download the attached pdf file whenever I receive an email from nepasrepondre@l-information.com and store it in E.LECLERC/Factures in OneDrive.

## Getting the account statements

I tried to leverage the BNP API but did not manage to 🤕. I believe individual customers are not allowed to use it, for security reasons.

For now, this is a manual process of extracting my account statements as .xlsx files from the official BNP or HelloBank websites.

The statements are then stored in Banque/Relevés in OneDrive.

## Look Up

I manually add rows to my lookup table whenever I encounter unknown transaction labels.

This is the only way I've found to have a detailed view of my spendings (category, subcategory, subsub, detail...).

🚧 **Next steps :**

So far, it works, but this is a tedious process which I must automate. As the lookup table grows, I may :
- send it to a database to query it using SQL 
- build an user interface to easily alter it

## Actually Extracting

The data is extracted using :
- the Web connector (with my Microsoft 365 credentials)
- the PDF connector to extract invoices data
- the Folder connector to automatically extract the new invoices and statements as they are being added

# Next Step

[Go to Transformation](transformation.md)

Commit message:

DMO-240916-19-(Update data_modeling.md)

Markdown files/extraction.md, after:

# Extraction

[Go back to ETL](ETL.md)

# Table of Contents

- [Getting the invoices](extraction.md#getting-the-invoices)
- [Getting the account statements](README.md#goal)
- [Category Look Up](README.md#getting-started)
- [Extracting the data](extraction.md#extracting-the-data-with-power-query-connectors)

---

# Getting the invoices 

The invoices are sent to my personal email from E.LECLERC so I created a worfklow in Power Automate to automatically download the attached pdf file whenever I receive an email from nepasrepondre@l-information.com and store it in E.LECLERC/Factures in OneDrive.

# Getting the account statements

I tried to leverage the BNP API but did not manage to 🤕. I believe individual customers are not allowed to use it, for security reasons.

For now, this is a manual process of extracting my account statements as .xlsx files from the official BNP or HelloBank websites.

The statements are then stored in Banque/Relevés in OneDrive.

# Look Up

I manually add rows to my lookup table whenever I encounter unknown transaction labels.

This is the only way I've found to have a detailed view of my spendings (category, subcategory, subsub, detail...).

## 🚧 Next Steps

So far, it works, but this is a tedious process which I must automate. As the lookup table grows, I may :
- send it to a database to query it using SQL 
- build an user interface to easily alter it

# Extracting the data with Power Query connectors

The data is extracted using :
- the Web connector (with my Microsoft 365 credentials)
- the PDF connector to extract invoices data
- the Folder connector to automatically extract the new invoices and statements as they are being added

# Next Step

[Go to Transformation](transformation.md)
