Markdown files/transformation.md, before:

# Transformation

- [Go back to ETL](ETL.md)
- [Go back to Extraction](extraction.md)


# Heads Up

This clearly was the hardest and the most interesting part, besides deriving insights from the data.

Before diving into what's been done, I would like to remind you a few things:

## Good practices

In descending order based on importance (according to me) :

- **Leverage M rather than DAX** as much as you can (new columns, switch cases, data types, ...) to improve performance (M is usually faster because it is processed before loading)
- **Disable auto-detection** of column types and headers

```
File > Options and settings > Options > Data Load > Type detection
```

- ⚠️ **Be careful when changing types**, this is the most common souce of error:
    - Try to change types once as the last step for all columns
    - Immediately affect a data type while creating new columns to avoid errors when you change its name
    - Error proof your change types step by using a Try structure
- **Rename all your steps** and use **only letters, numbers and underscores (no spaces)** to avoid the weird looking #"Column Name" step in the Advanced Editor
- **Leverage functions** for redundant operations
- **Leverage parameters for file paths** (or for anything else) to build robust queries
- **Group your queries** by creating distinct groups for parameters, helper queries, functions, to improve maintenance and readability
- **Add comments**
- **Add a description** to all your query groups, tables, columns and measures if necessary to allow other developpers and users to understand what you've done
<br/>
<br>

# Main transformations

## Functions

### - "Transform file"

This function is the template transformation for all account statements in the "Banque/Relevés" folde

⚒️ **Applied skill sets** :
- Functions
- Filename proofing with Source{0}

### - "Transform file (2)"

This function is the template transformation for all invoices from E.LECLERC. Those are semi-structured .pdf files that necessitate a lot of transformation to become clean and usable.

⚒️ **Applied skill sets** :
- Functions
- Non linear transformations in M
- Custom functions (conditional row filtering, custom text extraction) in M
- Testing and conditions in M (Try structure, if else structure)

### - "func_filter_rows"

This function automatically filters the invoice total amount and is leveraged by the "Transformed file (2)" function

## Queries

### - "Statements"

This query leverages the "Transform file" function and concatenates all account statements.

It then applies several transformations to :
- extract transaction dates
- extract keywords from transaction labels to merge the Category Lookup table
- create a custom transaction ID to build a relationship with the invoices.

⚒️ **Applied skill sets** :
- Functions
- Non linear transformations
- Python Regular Expressions
- Matching text extraction
- Merging

### - "Invoices"

This query leverages the "Transform file (2)" function and concatenates all invoices.

It then applies several transformations to :
- create a custom order ID to build a relationship with the account statements
- identify items with no Unit Price (mostly fruits whose price depends on weight)

⚒️ **Applied skill sets** :
- Working with locales

# Next Step

[Go to Loading](loading.md)

Commit message:

DMO-240916-15-(Update data_modeling.md)

Markdown files/transformation.md, after:

# Transformation

- [Go back to ETL](ETL.md)
- [Go back to Extraction](extraction.md)


# Heads Up

This clearly was the hardest and the most interesting part, besides deriving insights from the data.

Before diving into what's been done, I would like to remind you a few things:

## Good practices

In descending order based on importance (according to me) :

- **Leverage M rather than DAX** as much as you can (new columns, switch cases, data types, ...) to improve performance (M is usually faster because it is processed before loading)
- **Disable auto-detection** of column types and headers

```
File > Options and settings > Options > Data Load > Type detection
```

- ⚠️ **Be careful when changing types**, this is the most common souce of error:
    - Try to change types once as the last step for all columns
    - Immediately affect a data type while creating new columns to avoid errors when you change its name
    - Error proof your change types step by using a Try structure
- **Rename all your steps** and use **only letters, numbers and underscores (no spaces)** to avoid the weird looking #"Column Name" step in the Advanced Editor
- **Leverage functions** for redundant operations
- **Filter your data before loading it** to improve performance and RAM usage
- **Leverage parameters for file paths** (or for anything else) to build robust queries
- **Group your queries** by creating distinct groups for parameters, helper queries, functions, to improve maintenance and readability
- **Add comments**
- **Add a description** to all your query groups, tables, columns and measures if necessary to allow other developpers and users to understand what you've done
<br/>
<br>

# Main transformations

## Functions

### - "Transform file"

This function is the template transformation for all account statements in the "Banque/Relevés" folde

⚒️ **Applied skill sets** :
- Functions
- Filename proofing with Source{0}

### - "Transform file (2)"

This function is the template transformation for all invoices from E.LECLERC. Those are semi-structured .pdf files that necessitate a lot of transformation to become clean and usable.

⚒️ **Applied skill sets** :
- Functions
- Non linear transformations in M
- Custom functions (conditional row filtering, custom text extraction) in M
- Testing and conditions in M (Try structure, if else structure)

### - "func_filter_rows"

This function automatically filters the invoice total amount and is leveraged by the "Transformed file (2)" function

## Queries

### - "Statements"

This query leverages the "Transform file" function and concatenates all account statements.

It then applies several transformations to :
- extract transaction dates
- extract keywords from transaction labels to merge the Category Lookup table
- create a custom transaction ID to build a relationship with the invoices.

⚒️ **Applied skill sets** :
- Functions
- Non linear transformations
- Python Regular Expressions
- Matching text extraction
- Merging

### - "Invoices"

This query leverages the "Transform file (2)" function and concatenates all invoices.

It then applies several transformations to :
- create a custom order ID to build a relationship with the account statements
- identify items with no Unit Price (mostly fruits whose price depends on weight)

⚒️ **Applied skill sets** :
- Working with locales

# Next Step

[Go to Loading](loading.md)
